docs/Configuration.md, before:

# Application Configuration

managed-care-review is [configured using env vars](https://12factor.net/config).

Different env vars can be set in different environments [local dev, review apps, dev, staging, prod] to configure things differently. Environment variables are individually mapped in the `deploy` and `promote` Github workflows for use in deployments. If a new environment variable is added, it should be mapped there as well.

For local dev, we use `.envrc` and `.envrc.local` to set the appropriate environment variables. `.envrc` is loaded first, then `.envrc.local`, so if you need to set anything differently for your local environment you can set it in there. For more details, see the [`direnv` docs](https://direnv.net).

Also, CreateReactApp only loads env vars that start with `REACT_APP_`, so any configuration that needs to be read by app-web must start that way.

## List of Environment Variables

### `REACT_APP_AUTH_MODE`

Read by `app-api` and `app-web` and Cypress.

valid values: `LOCAL`, `AWS_COGNITO`, `IDM`

This tells the application how to perform authentication.

`LOCAL` means to use local auth. Make no requests to cognito, there is custom auth UI in app-web to pick a user. app-web then sends the user as a JSON blob in a header that serverless-offline dumps into the context of our lambda's execution

`AWS_COGNITO` means to use AWS Cognito User Pools for auth. There is UI for creating and logging in with cognito in app-web and app-api can fetch user information from those users using a cognito api as well.

`IDM` means to use CMS IDM as the auth provider. This is what is set in dev/val/prod. Users will be redirected to login in IDM and then redirected back to our site. Cognito will create users in a special Okta user pool and then everything will work the same as if you were auth'd with `AWS_COGNITO` above.

### `REACT_APP_API_URL`

Read by `app-web`

valid values: A URL where app-api is running

This is the base URL that all requests are sent to from app-web

### `REACT_APP_COGNITO_*`

Read by `app-api`

-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_REGION
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_ID_POOL_ID
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_USER_POOL_ID
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_USER_POOL_CLIENT_ID
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_USER_POOL_CLIENT_DOMAIN

These four env vars configure cognito auth from the browser. They are ignored if `REACT_APP_AUTH_MODE` is set to `LOCAL` and thus are only set in deployed environments.

### `REACT_APP_APPLICATION_ENDPOINT`

Read by app-web

valid values: A URL where a running app-web can be reached

It's used as the redirects for login by app-web when it configures login via IDM.

### `APP_VERSION`

Read by `app-api`

Generated by ./scripts/app_version.sh as part of the build process, this is a short git hash of the running commit, with '-dirty' appended to it if it's not a clean git checkout.

### `OKTA_METADATA_URL`

Read by `ui-auth`

This is the metatdata URL configured for reaching out to Otka auth. Reqired for `IDM` type auth.

### `REACT_APP_STAGE_NAME`

Read by `app-web`

This is used for rudimentary feature flags, allow us to switch things off and on based on deploy environment

### `IAM_PATH`

### `SECRETS_MANAGER_SECRET`

Read by `app-api` to securely pull secrets out of AWS Secrets Manager. Only set in AWS deployed environments, not used locally. This is the name of the secret to pull out of SM, which is scoped by review-app.

### `DATABASE_URL`

Read by `app-api` in configuring our connection to postgres. Required.
Must be set to a valid `postgres://` url or the sentinel value of `AWS_SM` in which case the correct values will be pulled out of AWS Secrets Manager (which requires SECRETS_MANAGER_SECRET) be set.

### `REACT_APP_S3_*`

Read by `app-web`

-   REACT_APP_S3_DOCUMENTS_BUCKET

The name of the bucket that documents are uploded to as part of the state submission form.

-   REACT_APP_S3_REGION

The region in AWS where the bucket is located. Cannot be set if REACT_APP_S3_LOCAL_URL is set.

-   REACT_APP_S3_LOCAL_URL

The local URL where an s3 server is being run. Cannot be set if REACT_APP_S3_REGION is set.

### `EMAILER_MODE`

Read by `app-api`

Determines which emailer to use, local or AWS SES emailer. Valid values are `LOCAL` or `SES`

### `SES_SOURCE_EMAIL_ADDRESS`

Read by `app-api`

Sets the "from" address for all emails sent by the system. This address must have been added to SES and validated there, in order to work.

### `SES_REVIEW_HELP_EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `SES_RATE_HELP_EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `SES_DEV_TEAM_HELP_EMAIL_ADDRESS`

Read by `app-api`

Single email addresses, used in email bodies to indicate where a state user could go for help with any issues about the submission.

### `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`

Read by CI for deploys, add_cypress_test_users.ts, `./dev local web --hybrid`

Configures the secrets necessary to interact with AWS services. Can be generated by CloudTamer for local use.

### `CLOUDFRONT_CERTIFICATE_ARN`, `CLOUDFRONT_DOMAIN_NAME`

Read by `app-web`

Used in dev/val/prod to set https certs and host names

### `FULL_IAM_PERMISSIONS_BOUNDARY_POLICY`

Read by `app-api`, `postgres`, `ui-auth`, `uploads`

Much of our infra sits inside this permissions boundary.

### `SLACK_WEBHOOK`

Read by Slack Alert Notifier

This is the webhook URL for sending alerts to our alerts channel

### `TEST_USERS_PASS`

Read by the Create Test Users action and Cypress in AWS_COGNITO mode

This is how we set the test users password configured for all review apps

### `GITHUB_TOKEN`

Read by the create deployment CI task, Cypress

This is an auth token provided by GH in Actions that allows CI to make calls to the GH API.

### `CYPRESS_RECORD_KEY`

Read by Cypress in CI

This is the key used by Cypress to send results to Cypress Dashboard.

### `CC_TEST_REPORTER_ID`

Read by codeclimate-action

This key allows uploads to CodeClimate for our code coverage stats.

### `OTEL_COLLECTOR_URL`

Read by Trace Context

This URL defines where we export traces to. It should differ between local dev and deployed environments.

### `LD_SDK_KEY`

Read by `app-api`

This is the key for Launch Darkly SDK access in our backend. There is one per environment of local/dev/val/prod.

### `REACT_APP_LD_CLIENT_ID`

Read by `app-web`

This is the client ID for Launch Darkly in our frontend. This key is designed to have limited access since it's exposed in our client side code. There is one per environment of local/dev/val/prod.

## Email configuration

Important email configuration is stored in AWS Parameter Store. Reference for the expected values can be found in [Confluence](https://qmacbis.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OY2/pages/3164864517/Emails)

We plan to move this to the DB down the road. Until then, know that if these values are not set properly, unexpected errors may occur in deployed applications. We guard against this with the [Parameter Store module](/services/app-api/src/parameterStore/awsParameterStore.ts) and in config checks in [apollo_gql](../services/app-api/src/handlers/apollo_gql.ts).

### Guidelines for usage of Parameter Store for emails

1. Parameter stores across environments will have the same names.
2. Clearly define the purpose of each variable in this file, as well as if it is configured differently by environment or we expect the same values for all environments.
3. Valid values in parameter store are strings and string lists. We prefer string lists to allow additional addresses to be added if needed.

### Expected email config and their intended usage across the application

#### `/configuration/email/sourceAddress`

*[same in all env]* This is the application-wide email sender.

#### `/configuration/email/helpDeskAddress`

*[same in prod/val]* This is the help address displayed in state emails for getting help for the MC-Review application.

#### `/configuration/email/rateHelpAddress`

*[same in prod/val* This the help address displayed in state emails for contacting the rate policy team.

#### `/configuration/email/reviewHelpAddress`

*[same in prod/val]* This the help address displayed in state emails for contacting the analyst review team.

#### `/configuration/email/dmcpSubmission`

*[environment specific]* This contains the DMCP primary inbox. The DMCP team is focused on policy issues related to managed care. They review all submissions, excluding CHIP and state of PR. This inbox is also primarily used for internal communication between DMCP, OACT, and DMCO.

#### `/configuration/email/dmcpReview`

*[environment specific]* This contains the DMCP inbox for external communication and Q&A notifications. 


#### `/configuration/email/oact`

*[environment specific]* This contains the OACT primary inbox. The OACT team is focused on actuarial overview of rates. They review submissions that have rates associated, excluding CHIP and state of PR.

#### `/configuration/email/dmco`

*[environment specific]* This contains the DMCO primary inbox. The DMCO team is focused on managed care contracts and they review all submissions.


#### `/configuration/email/reviewTeamAddresses`

*[environment specific]* List of emails for dev teams/individuals that want to follow all emails. In prod, this is two addresses associated with MC-Review dev team.

#### `/configuration/**[state abbreviation]**/stateanalysts/email`

*[environment specific]* This contains email addresses for analysts specific to a state. Use lower-cased state abbreviations as defined in `StateCodeType`.

Commit message:

move ip address check to apollo middleware, other pr fixes

docs/Configuration.md, after:

# Application Configuration

managed-care-review is [configured using env vars](https://12factor.net/config).

Different env vars can be set in different environments [local dev, review apps, dev, staging, prod] to configure things differently. Environment variables are individually mapped in the `deploy` and `promote` Github workflows for use in deployments. If a new environment variable is added, it should be mapped there as well.

For local dev, we use `.envrc` and `.envrc.local` to set the appropriate environment variables. `.envrc` is loaded first, then `.envrc.local`, so if you need to set anything differently for your local environment you can set it in there. For more details, see the [`direnv` docs](https://direnv.net).

Also, CreateReactApp only loads env vars that start with `REACT_APP_`, so any configuration that needs to be read by app-web must start that way.

## List of Environment Variables

### `REACT_APP_AUTH_MODE`

Read by `app-api` and `app-web` and Cypress.

valid values: `LOCAL`, `AWS_COGNITO`, `IDM`

This tells the application how to perform authentication.

`LOCAL` means to use local auth. Make no requests to cognito, there is custom auth UI in app-web to pick a user. app-web then sends the user as a JSON blob in a header that serverless-offline dumps into the context of our lambda's execution

`AWS_COGNITO` means to use AWS Cognito User Pools for auth. There is UI for creating and logging in with cognito in app-web and app-api can fetch user information from those users using a cognito api as well.

`IDM` means to use CMS IDM as the auth provider. This is what is set in dev/val/prod. Users will be redirected to login in IDM and then redirected back to our site. Cognito will create users in a special Okta user pool and then everything will work the same as if you were auth'd with `AWS_COGNITO` above.

### `REACT_APP_API_URL`

Read by `app-web`

valid values: A URL where app-api is running

This is the base URL that all requests are sent to from app-web

### `REACT_APP_COGNITO_*`

Read by `app-api`

-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_REGION
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_ID_POOL_ID
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_USER_POOL_ID
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_USER_POOL_CLIENT_ID
-   REACT_APP_COGNITO_USER_POOL_CLIENT_DOMAIN

These four env vars configure cognito auth from the browser. They are ignored if `REACT_APP_AUTH_MODE` is set to `LOCAL` and thus are only set in deployed environments.

### `REACT_APP_APPLICATION_ENDPOINT`

Read by app-web

valid values: A URL where a running app-web can be reached

It's used as the redirects for login by app-web when it configures login via IDM.

### `ALLOWED_IP_ADDRESSES`

Read by `app-api` and Cypress

Third party access to the MC-Review API is restricted by IP address. It must be set to a string that contains a comma separated list of IP address OR it can be set to `ALLOW_ALL` for the dev environment and for testing purposes.

### `APP_VERSION`

Read by `app-api`

Generated by ./scripts/app_version.sh as part of the build process, this is a short git hash of the running commit, with '-dirty' appended to it if it's not a clean git checkout.

### `OKTA_METADATA_URL`

Read by `ui-auth`

This is the metatdata URL configured for reaching out to Otka auth. Reqired for `IDM` type auth.

### `REACT_APP_STAGE_NAME`

Read by `app-web`

This is used for rudimentary feature flags, allow us to switch things off and on based on deploy environment

### `IAM_PATH`

### `SECRETS_MANAGER_SECRET`

Read by `app-api` to securely pull secrets out of AWS Secrets Manager. Only set in AWS deployed environments, not used locally. This is the name of the secret to pull out of SM, which is scoped by review-app.

### `DATABASE_URL`

Read by `app-api` in configuring our connection to postgres. Required.
Must be set to a valid `postgres://` url or the sentinel value of `AWS_SM` in which case the correct values will be pulled out of AWS Secrets Manager (which requires SECRETS_MANAGER_SECRET) be set.

### `REACT_APP_S3_*`

Read by `app-web`

-   REACT_APP_S3_DOCUMENTS_BUCKET

The name of the bucket that documents are uploded to as part of the state submission form.

-   REACT_APP_S3_REGION

The region in AWS where the bucket is located. Cannot be set if REACT_APP_S3_LOCAL_URL is set.

-   REACT_APP_S3_LOCAL_URL

The local URL where an s3 server is being run. Cannot be set if REACT_APP_S3_REGION is set.

### `EMAILER_MODE`

Read by `app-api`

Determines which emailer to use, local or AWS SES emailer. Valid values are `LOCAL` or `SES`

### `SES_SOURCE_EMAIL_ADDRESS`

Read by `app-api`

Sets the "from" address for all emails sent by the system. This address must have been added to SES and validated there, in order to work.

### `SES_REVIEW_HELP_EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `SES_RATE_HELP_EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `SES_DEV_TEAM_HELP_EMAIL_ADDRESS`

Read by `app-api`

Single email addresses, used in email bodies to indicate where a state user could go for help with any issues about the submission.

### `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`

Read by CI for deploys, add_cypress_test_users.ts, `./dev local web --hybrid`

Configures the secrets necessary to interact with AWS services. Can be generated by CloudTamer for local use.

### `CLOUDFRONT_CERTIFICATE_ARN`, `CLOUDFRONT_DOMAIN_NAME`

Read by `app-web`

Used in dev/val/prod to set https certs and host names

### `FULL_IAM_PERMISSIONS_BOUNDARY_POLICY`

Read by `app-api`, `postgres`, `ui-auth`, `uploads`

Much of our infra sits inside this permissions boundary.

### `SLACK_WEBHOOK`

Read by Slack Alert Notifier

This is the webhook URL for sending alerts to our alerts channel

### `TEST_USERS_PASS`

Read by the Create Test Users action and Cypress in AWS_COGNITO mode

This is how we set the test users password configured for all review apps

### `GITHUB_TOKEN`

Read by the create deployment CI task, Cypress

This is an auth token provided by GH in Actions that allows CI to make calls to the GH API.

### `CYPRESS_RECORD_KEY`

Read by Cypress in CI

This is the key used by Cypress to send results to Cypress Dashboard.

### `CC_TEST_REPORTER_ID`

Read by codeclimate-action

This key allows uploads to CodeClimate for our code coverage stats.

### `OTEL_COLLECTOR_URL`

Read by Trace Context

This URL defines where we export traces to. It should differ between local dev and deployed environments.

### `LD_SDK_KEY`

Read by `app-api`

This is the key for Launch Darkly SDK access in our backend. There is one per environment of local/dev/val/prod.

### `REACT_APP_LD_CLIENT_ID`

Read by `app-web`

This is the client ID for Launch Darkly in our frontend. This key is designed to have limited access since it's exposed in our client side code. There is one per environment of local/dev/val/prod.

## Email configuration

Important email configuration is stored in AWS Parameter Store. Reference for the expected values can be found in [Confluence](https://qmacbis.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OY2/pages/3164864517/Emails)

We plan to move this to the DB down the road. Until then, know that if these values are not set properly, unexpected errors may occur in deployed applications. We guard against this with the [Parameter Store module](/services/app-api/src/parameterStore/awsParameterStore.ts) and in config checks in [apollo_gql](../services/app-api/src/handlers/apollo_gql.ts).

### Guidelines for usage of Parameter Store for emails

1. Parameter stores across environments will have the same names.
2. Clearly define the purpose of each variable in this file, as well as if it is configured differently by environment or we expect the same values for all environments.
3. Valid values in parameter store are strings and string lists. We prefer string lists to allow additional addresses to be added if needed.

### Expected email config and their intended usage across the application

#### `/configuration/email/sourceAddress`

*[same in all env]* This is the application-wide email sender.

#### `/configuration/email/helpDeskAddress`

*[same in prod/val]* This is the help address displayed in state emails for getting help for the MC-Review application.

#### `/configuration/email/rateHelpAddress`

*[same in prod/val* This the help address displayed in state emails for contacting the rate policy team.

#### `/configuration/email/reviewHelpAddress`

*[same in prod/val]* This the help address displayed in state emails for contacting the analyst review team.

#### `/configuration/email/dmcpSubmission`

*[environment specific]* This contains the DMCP primary inbox. The DMCP team is focused on policy issues related to managed care. They review all submissions, excluding CHIP and state of PR. This inbox is also primarily used for internal communication between DMCP, OACT, and DMCO.

#### `/configuration/email/dmcpReview`

*[environment specific]* This contains the DMCP inbox for external communication and Q&A notifications. 


#### `/configuration/email/oact`

*[environment specific]* This contains the OACT primary inbox. The OACT team is focused on actuarial overview of rates. They review submissions that have rates associated, excluding CHIP and state of PR.

#### `/configuration/email/dmco`

*[environment specific]* This contains the DMCO primary inbox. The DMCO team is focused on managed care contracts and they review all submissions.


#### `/configuration/email/reviewTeamAddresses`

*[environment specific]* List of emails for dev teams/individuals that want to follow all emails. In prod, this is two addresses associated with MC-Review dev team.

#### `/configuration/**[state abbreviation]**/stateanalysts/email`

*[environment specific]* This contains email addresses for analysts specific to a state. Use lower-cased state abbreviations as defined in `StateCodeType`.
