docs/technical-design/howto-update-state-programs.md, before:

# How to update state programs

## Background
State programs are an important set of data in MC-Review. Currently, all submissions must have a program. Programs are also used in submission and rate names in communication. Right now developers are manually managing updates to the state programs list.

For pilot rollout of MC-Review, state programs are stored in a JSON file `stateProgram.json`. The state programs json is referenced both client-side, to display the program dropdowns, and server-side in API requests that include program data.

The source of truth for that file comes from a CSV maintained by product and design. It is titled "State programs, population, and nicknames" in Google Drive. When that team adds or updates programs and would like the changes reflected in MC-Review, the dev team needs update our stored JSON using `scripts/import-programs.ts`. Steps to update this list follows below.

## Steps

1. Download the latest version of csv from google docs when prompted by product/design.
2. Run the script following the command listed in the  `import-programs.ts`.
3. Overwrite existing state programs JSON with the new output. Your usage of the script will likely look something like this:  `cd scripts && yarn tsc && node import-programs.js ~/Desktop/State\ programs,\ population,\ and\ nicknames.csv > ../services/app-web/src/common-code/data/statePrograms.json`
4. Double check the diff. It's important not to delete any programs that have already been used for a submission because although programs are not in the database, we still store references to the program ID in postgres as if they are stable. Also, we want to be sure we are only changing programs expected to change.
5. Make a PR to update the statePrograms file in the codebase

Commit message:

[MCR-3616] update state programs (#2036)
* update state program list

* update documentation for updating state programs

* manually add ids for newly created programs

* update documentation

* fix api test

docs/technical-design/howto-update-state-programs.md, after:

# How to update state programs

## Background
State programs are an important set of data in MC-Review. Currently, all submissions must have a program. Programs are also used in submission and rate names in communication. Right now developers are manually managing updates to the state programs list.

For pilot rollout of MC-Review, state programs are stored in a JSON file `stateProgram.json`. The state programs json is referenced both client-side, to display the program dropdowns, and server-side in API requests that include program data.

The source of truth for that file comes from a CSV maintained by product and design. It is titled "State programs, population, and nicknames" in Google Drive. When that team adds or updates programs and would like the changes reflected in MC-Review, the dev team needs update our stored JSON using `scripts/import-programs.ts`. Steps to update this list follows below.

## Steps

1. Download the latest version of csv from google docs when prompted by product/design.
2. Run the script following the command listed in the  `import-programs.ts`.
3. Overwrite existing state programs JSON with the new output. Your usage of the script will likely look something like this:  `cd scripts && yarn tsc && node import-programs.js path/to/data.csv > ../services/app-web/src/common-code/data/statePrograms.json`
4. Double check the diff. It's important not to delete any programs that have already been used for a submission because although programs are not in the database, we still store references to the program ID in postgres as if they are stable. Also, we want to be sure we are only changing programs expected to change.
5. For any newly created programs, manually populate the `id` field usings a UUID generator 
6. Make a PR to update the statePrograms file in the codebase
